// Minimal Redis test - debug syscalls
import std.net.socket;

fn main(): int64 {
    PrintStr("1. Starting\n");
    
    // Create socket
    var fd: int64 := sys_socket(2, 1, 0);  // AF_INET, SOCK_STREAM
    PrintStr("2. socket fd = ");
    PrintInt(fd);
    PrintStr("\n");
    
    if (fd < 0) {
        PrintStr("socket failed\n");
        return 1;
    }
    
    PrintStr("3. Creating sockaddr\n");
    var addr: int64 := mmap(0, 16, 3, 34, -1, 0);
    PrintStr("4. mmap addr = ");
    PrintInt(addr);
    PrintStr("\n");
    
    if (addr <= 0) {
        PrintStr("mmap failed\n");
        sys_close(fd);
        return 1;
    }
    
    // Fill sockaddr_in: 127.0.0.1:6379
    poke8(addr, 2);           // sin_family = AF_INET (2)
    poke8(addr + 2, 0x18);     // port high byte (6379 = 0x18EB)
    poke8(addr + 3, 0xEB);     // port low byte
    poke8(addr + 4, 0x7F);    // IP first byte (127)
    poke8(addr + 5, 0);       // IP second byte
    poke8(addr + 6, 0);       // IP third byte  
    poke8(addr + 7, 1);       // IP fourth byte (1)
    
    PrintStr("5. Calling connect\n");
    var result: int64 := sys_connect(fd, addr, 16);
    PrintStr("6. connect result = ");
    PrintInt(result);
    PrintStr("\n");
    
    munmap(addr, 16);
    
    if (result < 0) {
        PrintStr("connect failed\n");
        sys_close(fd);
        return 1;
    }
    
    PrintStr("7. Connected! Now writing...\n");
    
    // Write PING
    var req: pchar := "*1\r\n$4\r\nPING\r\n";
    var sent: int64 := sys_write(fd, req, 18);
    PrintStr("8. write result = ");
    PrintInt(sent);
    PrintStr("\n");
    
    if (sent <= 0) {
        PrintStr("write failed\n");
        sys_close(fd);
        return 1;
    }
    
    PrintStr("9. Reading response...\n");
    
    // Read response
    var buf: pchar := "                        ";
    var n: int64 := sys_read(fd, buf, 32);
    PrintStr("10. read n = ");
    PrintInt(n);
    PrintStr("\nResponse: [");
    PrintStr(buf);
    PrintStr("]\n");
    
    sys_close(fd);
    PrintStr("11. Done\n");
    
    return 0;
}